<!-- TITLE: A Review of SUC 2017-18 -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Disclaimer – Any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author or the person being interviewed and do not reflect the opinions of Journal Club. -->

With the elections for Student’s Union Council 2018-19 approaching fast, we wanted to meet the SUC 2017-18 and share their thoughts with you. Before we get to the interviews, I would like to say that this current SUC has been the best one I have seen. They were communicating with the General Body at regular intervals, unlike previous years where the General Body only seemed to exist for fest deductions and budget approvals. I agree that there have been issues throughout the year, but you never can judge a story until you know all sides of it. 

When I pitched the idea of such an interview to the SUC, a few members were glad to have the opportunity to share their side of things while a few others were not so excited. While some of them could not make time for an interview due to prior commitments, others made time for an interview while some just refused to give an interview.

Following are interviews with the General Secretary and the Technical Secretary.

### Aditya Iyer – General Secretary

**Tell us a bit about your experience of being the General Secretary. How happy are you with the performance of this year’s SUC and you personally?**
At the start of the year, we were many individuals with similar goals rather than one collective unit. As is the case when you get ambitious people together, there were a few ego issues, and, in the beginning, people wanted things to happen their way. It took us some time to settle down and smoothen out the issues. Once that happened, it was smooth sailing for the most part. There were bumps here and there but I think we got over them pretty well. I feel like our achievements are better than any SUC before us. One of the most important things we wanted to be implemented in BPHC was events starting on time. If you ask me, we’ve achieved that to a certain extent. More than that, we pulled off successful fests year-round and are expecting to end the year on a profit. So, on the whole, I’d say I’m pretty happy with myself and the SUC.


**There are things that you put forth in your manifesto that still haven’t been done. Keeping that in mind, how much of your goals have you accomplished in your term?**
When I stood for elections, I put forth a lot of ambitious points in my manifesto. After a year, I can say that though those ideas were ambitious, they came from a slightly immature mind. I think it’s the same for anyone who stands for the elections. Only after the elections are over do you realise that your job is a lot more than just fests plus your manifesto. In one of our first meets as the newly formed SUC, we discussed our collective goals and agreed that the collective goals took precedence over our individual goals. To us, the betterment of the campus was more important than our individual manifestos.

I personally tried to accomplish as much as I could from my manifesto while still staying true to the collective ideals. Maybe we might not have hit all of our personal targets, but as the SUC I feel like we hit all of our intended goals. 


**Initially, the SUC faced difficulties in getting budgets passed in General Body Meetings. Any comments on that?**
So many things were unprecedented this time. This was probably the first time a SUC started with an account balance of -12 Lakhs. Usually, we get 20-25 lakhs to start with, from the General Body and the director’s fund.  This time, however, we started off with around 12 lakhs instead of 20. As was discussed before that, we wanted to scale up ATMOS and to compensate for the losses of the previous SUC, we wanted to increase the deductions from the General Body. That said, our initial budget was not outrageous at all. It was well planned. We had the most pessimistic budget we could have. Even then, it could not be passed because the quorum was not met for that meeting. That gave us the impression that the General Body simply did not care and almost led to the President resigning. 

However, we made some minor revisions and this time when we tried to explain to the people about the budget, they listened and passed the budget. As everyone witnessed, ATMOS was a huge success. From there, we never looked back, and we think this year’s pearl will generate a profit or will at least break even. 

**You said there were ego issues within the SUC. How did you guys handle any disagreements that came up?**
There were a few difficulties within the SUC. Like I said before, we are all ambitious people and there were ego issues throughout the year. Once we took a closer look at the constitution, we noticed a lot about our own and other’s roles and we had no choice but to bend ourselves to fit into those roles. Sure, there were tempers lost and shouting matches, but we always came out of those with solutions. We were all mature enough to put the past behind us and focus on getting the job done. At the end of it all, we are still friends.


**At the start of the year, the SUC said that the Hostel Representatives (HReps) would have an increased role this year. Has that happened?**
This year SUC was 7+ HReps. They were part of every meeting we had and projects we had in mind within the campus that were student-oriented, the HReps had a major role. The HReps were continuing the student projects we had. They have been working behind the scenes and were in talks with chief warden about the hostel issues and other facilities. The 212 tracker, Smart campus, Cykul were the big things they accomplished. Next year’s room allotments is also being taken care of by HReps. Safe to say, the HReps have exceeded our expectations.  


**There were many issues that the people had with members of the SMC throughout the year. Is there anything the SUC could have done to help with that?**
Technically the SMC isn’t under the purview of SUC. They are a council of students representing the GB with respect to mess issues. They do meet with SUC occasionally, but we have no power over them. I personally feel like there was lack of a framework for what they were doing. They tried to get a framework but that didn’t work out. Towards the end, they started getting things done in a much better manner. With the recent developments, the SUC met with KPN sir and SSD sir. We hope that next year the SMC and the SUC work together more than we did this year and do a great job. 


**Any advice to the General Body to choose their next SUC?**
Understand the person and the role for which they’re standing for. It’s not all credentials and fancy manifestos. Look at the person’s vision for the campus and the General Body. The responsibility that comes with a post need not always be linked to the credentials. Look for a drive within a person.  How well that person will fit into the SUC and how well that person will be suited to the responsibility. Don’t be swayed by fancy speeches and powerful promises. Attend soapbox and campaign meetings and ask them questions. Don’t vote because a person is your friend or your friend’s friend. Be very sure that a person will be a good fit. 


**Give us some insight into the issues you faced when you were taking charge and how you plan to avoid those when it comes time for you to pass the baton.**
The previous SUC was mostly unhelpful when it came to handing over the job to us. They had practically no documentation or anything of that sort to help us settle in. Sampath (General Secretary, 2016-17) and Metta (Cultural Secretary, 2016-17) were the only ones who were guiding us with how things are supposed to be done. Keshav (President, 2016-17) was pretty much absent when it came to the transition. It was very hard for us to get a hold of him.
This year, the administration side of things became very formal compared to last year. So, to help the coming SUC, we are leaving behind documentation on every initiative we have taken up so that they can pick up right where we left off. We also will be there with them for the initial month or so that they can get settled in much quicker than us and get started on their jobs.

### Sharath Golluri – Technical Secretary

**This is the first time the post of the Technical Secretary has been incorporated under the SUC. How has it gone for you this year?**
It has gone very well. After seeing how the Technical Secretary was treated by the SUC last year, I am more than happy with how this year has gone. The SUC was much more supportive this year. I’m not 100% satisfied though.  


**During the election season last year, many people noticed that you didn’t have a manifesto. Why is that?**
Yes, that is correct. I do not have a manifesto. Instead, candidates for this post have a Statement of Purpose. An SOP is like a manifesto but is much more detailed. In an SOP, I have to present points and also explain how I plan to achieve them. The Technical Senate, the current SUC and the EC shortlist candidates and then an interview is conducted to select the candidate. If any member wants to view the SOP, they can contact the EC.


**At the beginning of the year, you promised a 212 tracker and a cashless campus. Any updates on the 212 tracker? **
The Smart Campus initiative was something I wanted to implement at any cost by the end of the first semester and we did it. The 212 tracker is a bit more complicated. Initially, I had entrusted it to Suhas Reddy and to be fully honest, he wasn’t as reliable as I thought he was. As a result, I had to do most of the work on my own. All throughout the winter break, I had to go to Hakimpet bus depot at 5:30 in the morning to talk to the respective authorities. Main issue is of power supply. Since we have to run GPS trackers for a long time, we also have to power them. Since the buses do not have such a provision, we are taking permissions to modify the buses. We thought of power banks, but it was a temporary measure and it would have been too hectic. I personally did not want anything less than a fully functional permanent solution.


**How much help did you get from the administration side for the 212-tracker project?**
Very little. We had little help from SWD and GAD but apart from that, practically no help whatsoever.


**On a personal level, do you feel like is there something more you could have done? **
If I started listing out the projects I am currently working on, we will be here for a long time. The SU portal, The Tinkerer’s Center, Revival of FOSS, a special heat reflecting paint mixture to be used on the tops of hostels, talking to GHMC about the dumping yard smell on campus and many more. For me personally, I can never get bored of innovation. So, no matter how much I accomplish, I will always feel like I could have done more.


**Can you elaborate a bit more about the heat reflecting paint?**
Yeah sure. Currently, the solutions available on the market are really expensive. So, I pitched this idea of an affordable heat reflective paint to the Civil HoD, Prof Sridhar Raju and he welcomed me to take it up as an official project under him. You have to understand that innovation takes time. That is true for any field. If you want something functional then you have to wait. It cannot happen overnight. A realistic goal for me is to get the paint ready by summer of 2019. 


**You spoke about something called the Tinkerer’s Centre. What is that?**
The Tinkerer’s Center is going to be opened in the SAC basement. It is literally what the name says. There will be all sorts of equipment and tools required for engineers to tinker around. As of now along with the basic stuff we are also planning to have a 3D Printer over there. You can expect an official announcement in a week or two.


**You mentioned that the SUC was very supportive this year. How helpful were they?**
This year the SUC straight up promised funds of 6.5 Lakhs for all technical activities on campus. They were very supportive whenever I asked for help from them. The SUC also helped us negotiate deals with certain administrative departments to get the technical bodies additional funding if required.

However, one thing that I did not like about this SUC was their treatment of ATMOS. Unlike their treatment of Pearl, they treated ATMOS more like a business. Always looking for returns on their investments. I feel like there was much more scope for improvement had they treated ATMOS like a fest and given it the same level of importance that they give to Pearl.

**Any advice to your juniors who wish to get into technical activities?**
Start. That is all I can say. They have to start somewhere and take up some initiative on their own. None of us were this good when we started. We learned by experience and whenever we had issues we consulted our seniors. The learning curve is going to be steep, but it is a lot of fun and once you get past the initial hurdles, you can build anything you can dream of!

- *Viswanatha Kasyap Pasumarthy*





