<!-- TITLE: Academics at BITS Hyderabad -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: A description of how the undergraduate degrees at BITS Hyderabad, BE (hons) and MSc (hons) work.  -->
# Introduction
BITS offers two types of degrees at the undergraduate level, BE (hons) and MSc (hons). Students who meet the admission requirements, and have a high enough BITSAT score are offered admission to one of these programs. A BE degree generally takes four years of study on campus, while an MSc degree (dual degree) takes 5 years. There are two semesters in a year. At the beginning of each semester, you have to register for courses you wish to pursue that semester and prepare your time-table. During the semester, there will be multiple evaluation components, such as a mid-semester exams, surprise quizzes or tests, lab evaluations and assignments. At the end of each semester, you have comprehensive exams ("compres") that are usually 1.5 hours to 3 hours long and carry a heavy weightage toward your final grade. After the compres end, when you are at home for holidays, your grades are released online through the ERP portal. Grades are usually released about fifteen days after semester ends.

# Timetable and Registration
## Preparation of Timetable
Before the beginning of a semester, a draft timetable is usually prepared and sent to all students, asking for feedback on timing of classes. Based on the feedback received, and the feasibility of the requests, a final timetable is sent to students about two weeks before the beginning of the subsequent semester. For newly-joining first-years, however, a physical hard copy of the timetable is given during admission, and instructions on how to register is given during the orientation.

The timetable contains a list of all courses being offered that semester and what the timing and instructors of each course are. The timetable also lists out the room numbers in which the classes will be taught and the pre-requisites for doing a course, as well as the dates and times of the midsemester and comprehensive exams. 

## Registration Through ERP
Registration for courses is done through the ERP portal. Before registration begins, all students are randomly allotted a **PR number**, which decides what time slot you'll be registering in. People with a small PR number register in the first slot, while people with large PR numbers register in the last slot. Usually, there are 3-4 time slots in which you can register. As courses are assigned on a first come-first serve basis, people lucky enough to be in the first time slot usually get the courses they desire. This system is said to be "fair" as your PR number "averages" out in the long run. Also, the registration system is known to be very crash-prone and slow at times. 

While planning your timetable, you have to ensure that two courses you register to do not **clash**, or have exams/classes at the same time. The ERP system usually warns you have two classes clashing at the same time, but may not warn you about clashing comprehensive/midsem exam dates. Also, you might want to ensure that you have atleast one hour free between 11AM-2PM for lunch. Filling in a day without a lunch break will not result in an error on the ERP system. 

Registering for courses and sections you want is one of the many freedoms you get at BITS Hyderabad. However, first years do not have a choice in what courses to register to - the first year courses are common for all students, and are compulsary. First years, however, have some choice over what instructor/time slot  they want their classes to be. For subsequent years, there's a set of compulsary courses you have to do for your degree, along with a number of electives. 

# Classes