<!-- TITLE: A Ditch In Time -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: A take on recent developments on the ISRO spy case.-->

A stitch in time saves nine. But, can a stitch really be enough to repair the tear of continuous torment and accusations in life for over 24 years? A stitch? The time? 24 years.
Innocent until proven guilty was not a strong factor in this case.

The ISRO (Indian Space Research Organization) Spy Case, which was in the news recently, seemed to work in the mirror dimension: guilty until proven innocent. The stitch took its time, a lot of it, setting back projects of national importance by decades, which some believe is the main reason why the accusations surfaced.
Two Maldivian women overstaying their visas were arrested in 1994, on additional (later proven fictitious) charges of aiding two scientists at ISRO – Nambi Naryanan and D Sasikumaran – with espionage and leaking crucial information related to India’s indigenous space technology to Pakistan.

In 1992, India had signed a deal with Russia which entailed the transferring of resources for the development of cryogenic-based fuels, at a minimal price of Rs 235 Crore, compared to the US’ price of Rs. 950 crore and France’s price of Rs 650 crore. The USA proceeded to threaten Russia, which eventually succumbed to the pressure. While India found a way to bypass this unjust monopoly - developing its own cryogenic technology - the accusations of espionage bulldozed all hopes of it in 1994. *“My investigation showed that the spy case was the illegitimate child of US-French agencies with the intention of burying me and the ISRO in the cemetery”*, says Nambi Narayanan.

Narayanan was arrested, spent 50 days in jail, during which the Intelligence Bureau officials who interrogated him pressurized and tortured him to make false accusations against the then heads of ISRO. Narayanan stuck to the truth and refused to give in even though he was hospitalised, due to the torture he was subjected to during interrogation. Years later, he said his only complaint against ISRO in the duration of the case was its inaction. The then Chairman of ISRO defended himself and the organization at that time by saying they didn’t want to interfere in a legal matter.
May 1996 saw the Central Bureau of Investigation clear all charges against all the accused related to this case. There was nothing out of place that hinted at “secrets being sold for millions”. In the April of 1998, the Supreme Court followed suit. Following the clearance of all charges, Nambi Narayanan – the Project Director of Cryogenic Engine – and D Sasikumaran - the Deputy Director of cryogenic technology division of ISRO – were transferred from Thiruvananthapuram and given desk jobs, damaging their careers which had a high potential.

The National Human Rights Commission ordered the Kerala government to pay them a compensation of Rs 1 Crore in 2001. The Kerala High Court went on to order the government to pay Rs 10 lakh to Nambi Narayanan in 2012 based on an NHRC appeal. Meanwhile, the Kerala government had dropped charges against the police officials responsible for falsely implicating the scientists, foreign nationals and a businessman because more than 15 years had passed since the case.
Nambi Narayanan wasn’t paid his compensation even in 2013. This led him to begin fighting for his compensation and expose the wrong-doers. He believed that the case would discourage the youth if the conspirators weren’t brought to justice.

Finally, a three-judge bench in the Supreme Court gave a judgement ordering a probe into the cases of the false arrests, coupled with another order to the Kerala government, asking it to pay Rs 50 lakhs in compensation, for the mental cruelty he and his family suffered, within 8 weeks of September 14, 2018.
Another accused, K Chandrashekhar, the Indian Representative of Russian Space Agency Glavkosmos, went into a coma and passed away shortly before the verdict which would clear his name, and establish his honesty and loyalty.
D Sasikumaran refuses to claim compensation from the government saying that the officials who were responsible for all these troubles should be the ones to pay, not the taxpayer.
Bringing back the stitch analogy, is this small compensation a strong enough stitch to repair the losses they faced? Such a case and delay in justice (if it comes) can engulf a person in various avenues – monetary losses, reputation, doubt, depression. Also, not everyone can last through to a relatively happier ending. 25 years is a long time. Within the people involved in the case, we see different ways people were affected by the case – The Maldivian women, suffering in their social life, Nambi Narayanan, fighting for implication of the wrong-doers, his career dissolved by one false allegation put up by those with vested interests, K Chandrashekhar, who passed away without knowing what came out of the verdict, the businessman whose business was affected.

On the other hand, the three police officials who were in-charge of the investigation - now found resting on false claims - continued in their jobs, and retired peacefully. After all of this, we do not know the few powerful players who profited unethically by obscuring this misdeed as prolonged investigation of truth.
**Who can give back all of this to the accused and realize what a nation has lost? Who can turn back time?**

As someone commented - “I can file a 100 cases against you today. It is up to you to get out of them in the next 20 years. That is the state of this country today.”
This case, as mentioned above, had a lot resting on it. The cryogenic engine was to be used in the GSLV. Had this case not stalled the project, today ISRO would have been in a position to generate billions of dollars to the government. One way this entire mess could’ve been avoided was the existence of an option for the case to be fast-tracked, given higher priority and a deadline to announce the final verdict. The deadline decided, keeping in mind everything hanging in the balance, including the chance that the accused is innocent, and what a delay in decision could mean for that person (the risks involved in the delay of justice should being taken into account to boost the priority of the case among others).
Who knows how many innocent people fall into such traps every day? How many lives are ruined by those who are narrow-minded enough to forsake the right to life of another for their own gains? There is no telling who will fall into a trap – an innocent person working hard to serve the nation, or an actually guilty party – and pending investigation, the law will not discriminate between the two.
