<!-- TITLE: ATMOS Through The Ages -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: A quick summary of Atmos Through The Ages -->


ATMOS- Assimilation of Technically Motivated Souls, as the name suggests, is the annual techno-management fest conducted by BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus in the month of October. It primarily focuses on displaying the college’s technical culture, and it fulfills this objective through several competitions, workshops and talks that take place during the fest.

Since its inception in 2012, the fest has always been a massive success and a source of pride for every student of BPHC.   

The year 2012 saw the origin of ATMOS. That year, BPHC witnessed two separate tech fests, the first one was the techno-cultural fest held in February under the name of Pearl and the second was marked the beginning of the annual independent technical fest, ATMOS that we usually have in October now. Being the college’s first technical fest, every student, irrespective of club or department, poured their heart and soul into the fest. Their labour clearly bore fruit as the very first-edition1 of ATMOS managed to generate a revenue of 22.45 lakhs, with a net profit of 9.59 lakhs and an astounding footfall of 6000 students. With the theme of Evolution, the fest managed to draw a plethora of students from all over the country, eager to participate in the multitude of exciting events conducted such as Robotics and Circuit Design competitions as well as workshops on Ethical Hacking and Android App Development. The headliner events were the workshops conducted by prominent companies such as Wikipedia and DreamWorks. 

Keeping the environmental situation in mind, ATMOS 2013 witnessed the Green Engineer’s Initiative - an initiative aimed at having a clean and green fest. It also had many workshops and events regarding environmental preservation, green economy and green engineering. The National General Quiz, Enigma 2013 was the next biggest highlight of ATMOS 2013. The second edition of ATMOS included several competitions organised by the technical associations such as Cannon Wars by the Association of Chemical Engineers, Open Outcry by the Economics Association, Junkyard Wars by the Mechanical Engineering Association and many more events all of which welcomed participation of several students. Raspberry Pi workshop for robotics enthusiasts and Windows 8 Appfest, a coding marathon for web developers also drew a large audience. There were also talks by Dr. Ayanna Howard of Georgia Institute Of Technology who spoke about Robotics and artificial intelligence (AI) and Prof. Rob Walcott, Director of Kellog Innovation Network.

In 2014, the latter half of the term ‘techno-management’ was brought to the forefront. Along with the pre-existing technical events, new finance and management related events such as Open Outcry, Managers Dilemma and Trading Brains were introduced and gained a lot of attention. Enigma continued to grow, with as many as 250 teams taking part in the regional rounds all across the country. A footfall of 5000 was registered over the course of the three days of the fest. The fest was graced by the presence of the Telangana IT minister, K. T. Rama Rao.

By 2015, ATMOS witnessed a footfall of 8000 people taking part in over 70 events during the course of three days. Sponsorship was also at an all-time high, with official sponsors such as Coca Cola, Red Bull and Uninor. Guests of honour for the fest included Dr. G. Satheesh Reddy, technical advisor to the Defence Minister and Director of DRDO and Justice Markandey Katju, former Chief Justice of India and Chairman of the Press Council of India. Vikram Joshi, renowned quizzer who won the World Quizzing Championship 2014, was the quizmaster during the Enigma Finals with a grand total of 50k as prize money being up for grabs. Suit Up, an event conducted by CEL, was one of the most popular events of the fest. 

ATMOS, 2016 had a rather interesting theme - ‘Illusions, Paradoxes and Perspectives’. DJ Paroma infused the whole campus with vigour and enthusiasm through her indelible proShow. New workshops and conferences were included, on topics such as RC Aircraft, Aerial Photography, IoT, Fastrack Automobile and notably, PyBITS, an event which aimed to promote the usage of Python among the attendees and introduce them to the diverse applications of Python in several domains. Competitive events such as, Code Jam, Reverse Coding and Algomaniac also received massive participation. Sponsors like Cyient, Prodigy, SBI, Heico and KTM funded the fest making it a grand success. A noteworthy guest oration was delivered by Dr. Devi Shetty, cardiac surgeon, chairman and founder of Narayana Health, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri laurel.


ATMOS 2017, centred around the theme ‘A Neon Dystopia’, had more than 132 contingents from all over India taking part. It had patronages from Make in India, Startup India and Digital India which ensured that all that events and workshops were up to their standards. There were workshops conducted by Google Developers, Microsoft and IBM. Padma Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar held a tele-presence talk where he gave an insight into the the beginnings of ISRO and modern space technology. ATMOS ‘17 also saw the introduction of cashless bill payment at the food stalls for the on-campus students which was a move widely appreciated by the students. Enigma continued to grow like the previous years, offering a grand total of 80k as prize money.

As ATMOS 2018 draws closer, we look forward to delve into The Sixth Dimension and see what this edition holds for us.



1 - The very first edition of ATMOS here, refers to the overall second technical fest and the first ever technical fest under the name of ATMOS.
