<!-- TITLE: Conspiring the Calamity -->

“You kill the God of War, you stop the war… Why are they still fighting?!...”, Diana asks Steve Trevor in Wonder Woman. Steve then tells her that he too wishes he could believe that there’s one bad guy to blame. But the truth is more complicated than that. Diana has to discover this for herself, and come to terms with the fact that the darkness which lies within every human,  is something that “no hero can defeat”. 
Like it or not, Diana believed in a conspiracy theory. She believed that Ares, the ‘God of War’ caused, well, the War. And that by killing Ares, she could end the War. Simple, neat and alluring in it’s core. Conspiracy theories have that effect. They provide alternative explanations for messy, complicated, real-world incidents. It is frightening to believe that there is a bunch of people sitting, orchestrating phenomena with their own elaborate end to achieve and masterfully hoodwinking the masses.
But it is a hundred times more frightening to believe that terrible things happen because of not-so-terrible baby steps that add up over time. We are all capable of taking those steps. What can be more frightening than knowing that you, along with millions of other people, might actually be responsible for climate change and wars? It’s much more satisfying to believe that it’s all actually caused by one malevolent organization. Just as Diana did, blaming one bad guy is easy. But it’s also like Diana found out. It won’t really amount to much. 
