<!-- TITLE: Campaigning At Its Worst -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: As the Doomsday approaches, the pressure on the candidates to express themselves, to reach out to and convince as many students as possible has increased too. But the need to do so ended up spoiling the spirit of the much anticipated General Election 2018 for some of the students on campus.  Journal Club presents an informative piece to remind the General Body Members of their role and power during the time of elections. -->

The Rights of the General Body as given by the Election Commission for the General Elections 2018 are as follows -  

1. All the General Body Members hold the right to say NO to campaigning. We have the right to say no to take part in campaigning or get campaigned to.  
2. Only students whose names are in the Campaigners’ List of the candidate can campaign. We as the General Body members can always verify with the candidate or the EC if a particular candidate is part of the Campaigning List or not.
3. All the students of 2017 batch hold the right to ask for the Campaigning Slip, and the campaigner has to produce it, failing which the candidate, whose campaigner it was, is liable for appropriate action. Not many of us seem to be aware of this rule, but we do have the right to ask campaigner for the campaigning slip.
4. The Administrative Block must not be used as a place for election propaganda.
5. No campaigning is allowed before 5 p.m. (1p.m. on Saturdays) and after 11 p.m. in working days.
6. In case of ragging or threats, students should immediately call any member of the Election Commission.

Now that we have reminded ourselves about what powers we hold as members of the General Body, let us now look into some of the disturbing things we have picked up this Election Season. It is worth mentioning again that this is just our attempt to keep things clear for the members of the GB including us and is not biased towards one particular person. 

It has been brought to our attention that some of the candidates out of ignorance or in their ambition of getting elected have put vague and impossible promises in their manifestos, which they simply do not possess the power to enforce if elected to be a part of the SUC. If we are not mistaken, we overheard a candidate as part of their campaign promising to take BITS to the top 5 spots in the National Institute Ranking Framework’s (NIRF) annual rankings. Why don’t we leave the Administration to worry about such issues? Then there were some who wanted to delve into the matters of the SMC or GAD. They might be highly ambitious and noble for their thoughts but there are designated people for every concern and hence we have the elections to elect the right people for the right post. One simply cannot impose their free will upon whatever seems fancy enough to go on their manifesto or their campaign speeches. 

A Respected Member of our college, whose identity we do not wish to disclose has wished to confirm some of these disturbing facts and answer our queries.

These are the answers given to our team by the member:

**We have observed that students are being forced to attend this so called “Campaigning”, where the candidates are desperately trying to prove why they are fit for the job. But the students are being forced to gather in the common rooms or in the QTs. One can always argue that time constraints is the main reason for doing so, but doesn’t the student, a member of the General Body have the right to choose if he wishes to go to the meet or not?**
Yes, the GB member has the ultimate say if he is willing to be a part of the process or not. Campaigners or the candidates are not allowed to force someone to listen to their dirty political manifesto and manipulations. They can just market themselves to attract people to listen to what they say but can't force anyone. Doing this is equivalent to a crime which can be filed against them for disturbing one's freedom and rights. The reason that I have called them out is that there are some parts of these so-called manifestos that are very unrealistic though they may sound fancy and ornate. There are some constraints to which the candidate has to adhere to and not go about giving false claims to the General Body.

**The campaigning culture seems to have been taking ugly turns. With cases of bullying to attend the meetings being heard more often than normal. There are even claims that some of the neutral bodies’ members are taking part in these too. Isn’t the EC supposed to send a volunteer along to control such deeds? Your comments on this behaviour of the neutral bodies?**
Apparently, EC should moderate the QT meetings and public gatherings during elections. Sadly, it has been observed that some of the EC members are partial to specific candidates. Not to reveal the names, but this is a recent happening. One Election Commission Head, say X was given a formal warning for watching the QT meet of a candidate from a 2nd floor room by another EC member, say Y who was assigned to moderate that QT meet. The reason stated by Y was that X was interrupting the meeting. In-fact, he was just watching the candidate speak like everyone else. To make matters worse, this Y didn't do anything when a campaigner attended the opponent’s meeting and started raising irrelevant questions and provoking the Juniors. It seems an SUC member also was a part of campaigning, which for a matter of fact should not have been the case, he/she is subjected to suspension for this. But, the Election Commission didn't bother about such issues at all. These issues have somehow not reached the authorities. Same is the case with CRC, it seems, they too are campaigning for a candidate. There really seems to be no neutral body around here. 
We have also gathered more facts with the help of  our sources that there have been a few moments from the meetings that happened in this span of time that led to some unwanted outbursts from some of the campaigning teams, which is pretty disturbing since campaigning demands a certain decorum. They are essentially in need of the votes from the General Body and such incidents will not do any good to the candidate.
Keeping the aforementioned six points in mind, we would like to conclude this article that you the reader have the final say as to whom you want to support. You have the final say as to whom you want to have as your representative and not what others have to say. Do not hesitate to take it to the EC or any official if you face any such problems. You can even contact JC which will provide a medium to address your concern.