<!-- TITLE: Whispers in the Woods 2.1 -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: WITW 2.1 was the freshman edition of Whispers in the Woods, published by Journal Club in August 2018. -->

**Whispers in the Wood 2.1** is one of our biggest initiatives - 1100+ printed copies of this magazine were distributed to the incoming 2018 batch at Hyderabad. The magazine also includes a 20+ page magazine with information about all the clubs, departments, associations, and official bodies on campus - essentially serving as a "mini-orientation" titled as the *Organisations Manual*. With multiple web-pages of content on this wiki complimenting the magazine, presented information in a well-designed, easy-to-read format. 

**Whispers in the Woods 2.1 (2018)** was published in association with **[State Bank of India, Jawahar Nagar Branch](http://sbi.bank)** and **Sakthi's Kitchen Private Ltd.** 
# A Letter to You
Hi. 

Welcome to your new room. It used to be my home but now it is yours. A little cuboid in this strange new place that will be your own from the very moment that you step in. Do not be deceived by these freshly whitewashed walls that still carry the lingering smell of paint and varnish. These walls hold within themselves memories of three years of my college life. They have watched me grow from a clueless freshman to a confident senior. Within them I have spent nights toiling away with my books in front of me, hours and hours chatting with friends, lazy afternoons binge watching TV shows with my laptop on my belly and lived through an endless list of moments, first and lasts.

It was within these walls, on a cool Thursday night, that I made my first friend on campus while writing a lab record together. Only these walls watched me dance with joy when something filled me with happiness. These walls contain the echoes my voice as I sang through my life, sometimes in joy and sometimes otherwise. It was these walls that held me as I poured my eyes out, curled up on my bed in the darkness, after a call from home informed me that my grandfather had expired. These walls sheltered me when I was sick. It was into their bosom that I would escape when I wanted to get away from the world. It was here, the one place on campus, that I could truly be myself.

You might feel lonely at first, staring at the ceiling on your first night in a new place and wondering what it has in store for you. I promise you, there are more god things to come than bad. This place, BITS Pilani, is like no other. You’ll find all sorts of people here. You’ll make friends with some of them. If you’re lucky might even find family in them. One way or another, you’ll always find a BITSian who’ll have your back no matter what.

BPHC is like another planet altogether. While you’re here you could very easily forget about the world outside. Wherever your interests lie, here you will find a place to grow. Whether it is just academics, (You should all be interested in academics, kids. No matter what they tell you, grades do matter!) or art, robotics, music, finance, movies, coding, anime or even mountaineering, you will find companions to learn and explore with, seniors who will help you any day and hour and a system which supports you in this endeavor (zero percent attendance is here to stay, right?). I guarantee, it’s going to be so overwhelming that you’re going to end each semester wondering where all the time went and desperately wanting to get home because compres will suck out your will to live. Next sem phodenge!

Through all this madness, your room is going to be your safe haven. Whether you’re a clean freak like me or a horrible mess, this room is going to be your space. Nothing can get to you here. No one can trouble you (feel free to kick out anybody who tries) or tell you what to do with it.
I spent three years of my life here. That’s longer than I have spent in most houses (fauji brat, hello). I feel more at home here than I do at my own house sometimes and that’s a very special feeling. I hope you’ll feel the same way about this place soon. I don’t know about college being the best time of your life but I can tell you this, it’s going to be like no other and you should definitely make the most of it. On your last day when you’ll be vacating your room, while closing your door behind you for the last time and realizing you won’t be putting your lock on the latch, if you find this newsletter you saved on your first day and your eyes fall upon this article, I hope you’re thinking ‘Well, it’s been one hell of a ride!’.

*- Nikita Mandapati
    Secretary, Journal Club
    2017-18*
		
-----

© 2018 Journal Club, BITS Pilani - Hyderabad Campus. All rights reserved. For more legal information, [click here](/about). 