<!-- TITLE: A Facet Of Me -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Samyukta Ramnath is an alumnus from the 2012 batch at the Goa Campus. Samyukta identifies as a lesbian and has helped restart the Goa chapter of Anchor, a society for the members of the Queer Community. She is currently pursuing her masters at University of Pennsylvania and believes that her sexuality is only a facet of her personality. -->

*‘That girl is so cool! And so pretty, and so awesome… I want to spend all my time with her!’*
 
I learnt early that this sentiment may not be very accepted amongst my friends and family. No one overtly told me about this, but I sensed it from the looks I got, and from the undercurrent of disapproval in society’s opinions on LGBT people or ideas. I didn’t even know what ‘gay’ or ‘lesbian’ meant - just something negative that I didn’t want to be associate or be associated with. Eventually, as I learned a bit more about it, and realized with dread that I might be one of the people they referred to, I tried hard to suppress my feelings. Even though I knew there was nothing wrong with homosexuality in theory, I noticed that it was something unacceptable to declare openly in society. What followed was about two years of denial and depression. When I couldn’t take it anymore, I told two of my best friends, who were thankfully very supportive of me. They didn’t treat me any differently, and with them by my side, I found the courage to accept myself.

Self-acceptance is always the first step in self-confidence, and not just when it comes to sexuality. As I became comfortable in my own skin, it also led to me becoming more confident in other areas - making friends, and in my courses and academic trials. I’ve been very lucky that my friends’ response was so positive. I sometimes feel that it was partly my own attitude that helped them - that I stopped feeling that this is a life-changing condition, but just another part of me.

If more people realized that the folks in their office, in their daily routine may just be gay, and going through the struggles that a queer individual has to deal with in this country, social acceptance too won’t be that difficult to achieve. But in college, I saw that there was almost no queer visibility. This made me realize that there was a need to have some sort of support group for queer members of our campus, who would feel quite alone on the road to self-acceptance. I started looking around for an existing queer support group on campus.

I accidentally got in touch with a member of Anchor - Gender and Sexuality, a support group that had been started by some members in Pilani Campus. Its members had mostly graduated, but I decided to start it up again in Goa Campus. I set up an anonymous email ID and put up posters around campus, and got a few emails. We started up as a small support group, getting some messages occasionally from people who wanted to talk to us about their confusion and the isolation that they felt. Some of us graduated, including me, but we still want to keep the group visible and accessible to people currently on campus.

I’m currently in the USA, pursuing graduate studies in the University of Pennsylvania. The East Coast is famously liberal, and there is an established LGBT group on campus, with funding from the university and their own headquarters. It’s quite easy to find other people talk to, to date, and it rarely feels like you’ve deviated from some kind of norm. Keep in mind - I’m not advocating leaving India just for this purpose at all! Just that we as a society can learn from this live-and-let-live philosophy. For after all, your sexuality is just a facet of who you are, and you have so much to experience and contribute to the world. The quicker you’re able to accept yourself the way you are, the quicker you get to experience all the world has to offer.”

*Published 10th June, 2018.*