<!-- TITLE: Feeling Free: The Path to Self Acceptance -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Anonymous from the 2017 batch of the Hyderabad Campus identifies as gay. Read on as he talks about some of his experiences. -->

 *“The biggest question one gets asked when they “come out” to someone is: How long have you known?*

Most people expect a simple answer that contains a date or a time period. But it is much more complex than that. There is never a moment in the life of someone from the LBGTQ community that can be seen as something like an instant enlightenment or realisation about their identity. In my personal experience, I have always known that I was gay. Now I know that is a bit tricky to get one's head around. There was a time in my life where I was confused as to why some things affected me the way they did. But now, with the innumerable experiences I've had since that time, I'm able to connect the dots. And that is because those incidents, those feelings had tiny strings attached to me being homosexual.

However, there is a question similar to “How long have you known?” that is more relevant and much easier to answer: When was the first time you acknowledged that fact that you belonged to the LGBTQ community?

If someone asks me this, they are completely satisfied with the answer they get because I can give them a date and time. The story behind this “First Acknowledgement” is something that is unique to every person. Most of the time, they are related to completely normal day-to-day events which just showcases the fact that people from our community lead normal lives and not everything in their day revolves around their sexual orientation. These stories can be part of a huge spectrum: from sad to happy to intense and even downright hilarious. And often, this leads to talking about how one has dealt with conservative views.

I have consciously hidden this part of me from everyone I know for a solid 5 years out of the entire 19 years of my life. It is really unfortunate that we live in a society with people that are yet to accept the fact that we exist and we are as normal as any “straight” people they know and love. Not showing the LGBTQ community for what it truly is, has been the greatest downfall for our society. Although, I feel very proud to see that awareness about sexual orientation and gender identity is rising. The movement is definitely going in the right direction and it is gaining momentum as the younger generations start learning more about the topic. The once tabooed subject is gaining more and more platforms for discussion. We still have a long way to go, but optimism is the key to succeeding and getting justice in the future. As the community moves forward, its individuals gain confidence to speak up, to tell their story to people they care about. Consequently, this increasing awareness is helping confused teenagers and even adults to figure out who they are. It is comforting them with the fact that it is completely normal not to fit into conservative thoughts and old fashioned beliefs.

Figuring out who I am as a person has been the most beautiful aspect of my life. That is simply because it has had so many ups and downs. Crying in my school washroom after being bullied. Hating myself for who I am. Nights after nights of practicing to mask this part of me from the world. Relating to someone across the globe and feeling that someone finally gets me, that I belong. Telling someone for the first time ever and relishing the happiness and relief that follows. Accepting myself and allowing this side of my personality to live, to breathe. Finding that sliver of reality that makes me happy. Feeling free. I have had a blast shovelling away these mental layers I've built over the years. Even though I am not “out” publicly, I can finally embrace this tiny little part of my identity and find truth when I say: I love myself for who I am and I won't let anything make me feel any other way.”

*Published on 9th June, 2018.*