<!-- TITLE: Ignorance Cannot Go On -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: To the aid the efforts of LGBTQ awareness, JC brings forth a series of articles. First in line is this article by Gokul Nanda, an ally to the community.-->

Pride month celebrations don’t warrant the question of “where’s my straight month of the year?” because it’s not some vague celebration recognized by  President Obama in 2009. Pride has been celebrated every year in June since 1970 ever since the 1969 Stonewall riots – the leading event which lead to the gay liberation movement. The 1940s and 50s was undoubtedly the worst time to be gay. Homosexuality was categorized as a sickness, gays were sent to mental institutions, they were dishonorably discharged from the military; the FBI even maintained detailed files on those suspected to be homosexual. In 1969, police raided the bar and rooms of Stonewall Inn in New York, arresting crossdressers and gay men. Spontaneous riots and demonstrations ensued when people were tired of this kind of treatment. In all, pride month origins are political and scarred, and they always have been.

However, nowadays we hear a lot of seemingly progressive strides in the direction of acceptance of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and queer community. From being recommended for electrocution treatments to having sermons headed by lesbian priests today. Even large sections of catholic communities have come to accept them [1]. But the change reflected at times is only a part of the picture because studies show that the acceptance of LGBTQ people in America is lower than before [2]. There is a disconnect between broad public support for non-discrimination and the actual everyday difficulties that the people of the community face; from discrimination at jobs to being denied to being victims of severe homophobia and transphobia. Eight out of ten LGBT students report being bullied in school because of their sexual orientation, which can have devastating psychological effects then and later in life[3].

The story in India is far from a feeling of warmth too. Even without catholic dominance and pressure, our legislation remains as old as the British who first enforced it. However, the section that criminalises same-sex intercourse is under review, a new draft of the uniform civil code that would legalise same-sex marriage has been proposed. Moreover, a third gender for trans people has been recognized, leading to planning of various welfare schemes [4]. But the battle for civil rights remains an uphill one as there is widespread intolerance for the LGBTQ community. Most persons from the community are still afraid to come out to even friends and family anticipating shaming and discrimination. Moreover even in this day and age torture, coercion, conversion therapy, and honour killings aren’t unheard of.[5][6][7]It is also to be noted that most trans people would not prefer identifying as third gender but rather as the gender they have transitioned into, considering this the government’s policy of pigeonholing all trans people into the third gender may do more harm than good.

No causal theory of sexual orientation or gender identity exists. The debate continues on whether the causes are social or nonsocial, though there is considerably more evidence in favor of nonsocial causes[8]. But whatever the cause maybe, don’t the cries of more than 500 million people irrespective of race, caste and creed give enough validation to the existence of a non-heterosexual orientation or non-binary gender role? How many suicides, homeless people and mentally ill from the LGBTQ community does it take to warrant empathy and tolerance from all of the population? Current rates of suicide attempts among LGBTQ youth are 4 times higher than those of heterosexual and cisgender youth[9]. Estimated rates of homelessness in the past year are 30-45% among LGBTQ youth. The statistics can go on, but ignorance cannot.

Studies have shown that we can promote homosexuality tolerance through education[10]. We need an educational environment that is truly welcoming to all students; where students of the LGBTQ community can communicate and interact with heterosexual and cis-gendered students without fear. Gender neutral bathrooms can go a long way in bringing comfort to transgender or intersex individuals. We need to bring LGBTQ role models to interact with students, stand up for their civil rights in discussion, ask transgender individuals for their preferred pronoun, and don’t out anyone for their sexual or gender orientation. Understanding that it can be painful to have to constantly worry about something that you usually don’t give a second thought about is a necessity. Of course we cannot go against the religious beliefs of people. But the community needs allies, and we can all make the step forward. Heterosexuality is celebrated. Straight weddings are almost mini festivals. The goal should be to achieve this level of acceptance for the LGBTQ community as well. Their love deserves to be celebrated just like our heterosexual love is. But, because in the Indian society few adults accept homosexuality, it is tolerance that we need to strive to increase. To tolerate means to allow so as to not hinder and to permit something that isn’t wholly approved of. Promoting tolerance focuses on positive change and it must come before acceptance. But, as BITSians and the young and supposedly progressive generation we can and should work towards more than tolerance, we need to work towards an environment that is accomodating of the LGBTQ community and let’s them be exactly who they are without any fear of social ostracization.

# References

1. [How Christianity Is Becoming More Tolerant of the LGBT Community](http://bigthink.com/21st-century-spirituality/is-christianity-becoming-more-tolerant-of-the-lgbt-community)
2. [Accelerating Acceptance 2018]( https://www.glaad.org/publications/accelerating-acceptance-2018)
3. [Homophobia and Hate Crimes](https://www.internations.org/usa-expats/guide/29460-safety-security/racism-and-discrimination-in-the-us-16290/homophobia-and-hate-crimes-2)
4. [LGBT Rights in India](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_India)
5. [India: Prosecute Rampant ‘Honor’ Killings](https://www.hrw.org/news/2010/07/18/india-prosecute-rampant-honor-killings)
6. [Lesbian newlyweds flee honor killing threats in India](https://foreignpolicy.com/2011/07/29/lesbian-newlyweds-flee-honor-killing-threats-in-india/)
7. [Being LGBT in India: Some home truths](https://www.livemint.com/Sundayapp/sAYrieZdZKEybKzhP8FDbP/Being-LGBT-in-India-Some-home-truths.html)
8. [Association for Pshychological Science: Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science](http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1529100616637616)
9. [Finding Support: LGBTQ](https://www.nami.org/Find-Support/LGBTQ)
10. [Promoting tolerance for Homosexuality: An evaluation of intervention strategies]( https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00224498809551478?journalCode=hjsr20&)