<!-- TITLE: Section 377 of the IPC -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: “Kaun sa kanoon sabse bhattar? Tee saun sattatar, teen sau sattatar!” -->
 
This is possibly the most widely used chant in pride parades held across the country. What is pride, and this hatred towards the law numbered 377, you ask? Why do millions around the country continue to step out of their homes, schools and workplaces, walk for miles at a stretch, organise extravagant yet peaceful protests, march across numerous cities holding colourful banners, in flamboyant costumes, all while fighting for basic human rights? This is how I imagine Gandhi’s non-violent protests must have started (except the colours, of course). The crowds were small at first, and people insignificant. As the movement gained popularity and people realised the revolutionary impacts of their lone selves, it started to draw in larger numbers and ultimately drove the British away. There is immense power in numbers, I’d say. It’s time we realise this yet again and take a head on with one of the many ridiculous concepts left behind by our dear colonizers.

These colonizers, not very surprisingly, were historically the first to put chains on our otherwise diverse and inclusive country. Their shackles unfailingly also managed to reach the rich, multi-dimensional expressions of intimacy that filled our ancient books and even the most socially conservative areas places where same sex indulgence was simply a way of life. It was under the British Raj, that homosexuality was first deemed illegal in India. This legacy dates back 157 years to a dark part of imperial history.[1] It did not explicitly target homosexuality at first, but essentially claimed any form of intimacy that did not gear towards having or raising children as “unacceptable”. This, in theory, was inclusive of protected sex between a heterosexual couple and also effectively outlawed forms of birth control. Eventually, the specificities were taken over by ideas of moral policing. Since keeping a legal check proved impossible, over the years, the implementation of the law has purely been boiled down to restricting homosexual desires. 

Last year as the UK celebrated 50 years of progress for LGBT rights, 36 out of the 52 countries in the Commonwealth Games continue to criminalize same-sex acts by the means which seem nothing more than a toxic hangover. [2]

“Are successive governments since 1947 blinkered, when the UK itself has decriminalized homosexuality and gone as far as legalising same-sex marriages? Why do we allow a prudish, colonial-inherited Victorian sanction on modern India? It appears that there are political and religious conspirators who wish to pass the buck.”[3]
 
For so much trash talk about it, let’s have a look at the definition of the law itself:
 
 Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (Unnatural offences): “Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.”[4]

Clearly, this is not just an anti-gay law. "Carnal intercourse against the law of nature" fundamentally implies any form of sex other than for the purpose of procreation. Engaging in anything from frottage to orgies at the two extreme ends, and everything oral, vaginally or anal in between, is enough to criminalize its indulgers (yes, even heterosexuals). Diving deeper and reading up on the specificities and its details (377 a, b & c), the law further reveals that this prohibits the employ of sex toys, and does not even in reality recognise lesbians and extended sexual orientations, whatsoever. But again, Section 377 cannot be scrapped. It is imperative to our Constitution as it applies to paedophilia and bestiality too. Although, what is necessary is that it is simply to be amended, so as to state that consenting adults indulging in sex in private are not criminals.

The surprising bit is that the supporters of 377 have never failed to handpick reasons (read: excuses) that pertain to the most random walks of life. Soon after the first few protests against it, uptight leaders came up with the idea of directly assigning HIV/AIDs to acts of same-sex intimacy. Quoting Solicitor General PP Malhotra (2008), “Homosexuality is a social vice and the state has the power to contain it. [Decriminalising homosexuality] may create [a] breach of peace. If it is allowed then [the] evil of AIDS and HIV would further spread and harm the people. It would lead to a big health hazard and degrade moral values of society."

A similar point of view was openly shared by the Home Ministry.[5]

The fallacy and unfoundedness that came to light with these statements, brought upon further and intensified protests, a short timeline of which is included as follows:

- **July 2009**: Delhi HC decriminalises homosexuality: The court stated that the judgement would hold until Parliament chose to amend the law. However, the judgement keeps intact the provisions of Section 377 insofar as it applies to non-consensual non-vaginal intercourse and intercourse with minors.
- **December 2013**: SC overturns HC’s decision: In an earth-shattering move, the Supreme Court overruled the Delhi HC's decision calling it 'legally unattainable'. The two-judge bench observed that a miniscule fraction of the country’s population were members of the LGBT committee
- **2016**: Petitions to SC over Section 377: Petitions by well-known LGBTQ activists (including the renowned Shri Shashi Tharoor) were moved to the SC demanding 377 be amended since it violated an individual’s right to privacy, along with the other fundamental rights guaranteed under Part-III of Constitution.
- **August 2017**: SC upholds Right to Privacy: In a landmark unanimous ruling, India’s Supreme Court said on 24th August 2017 that the right to individual privacy is an “intrinsic” and fundamental right under the country’s constitution. “Their rights are not “so-called” but are real rights founded on sound constitutional doctrine. They inhere in the right to life. They dwell in privacy and dignity. They constitute the essence of liberty and freedom. Sexual orientation is an essential component of identity. Equal protection demands protection of the identity of every individual without discrimination.”
**January 2018**: SC agrees to reconsider 2013 verdict: The Supreme Court agreed to reconsider its 2013 verdict criminalising gay sex and referred to a larger bench the plea challenging the colonial penal provision.[6]

As lagging as this may seem, these advancements (particularly the Right to Privacy) may as well go on to be recognised as the biggest milestones in the near future of the LGBTQ history of the country. This essentially marks the first footsteps towards a more inclusive society, and effectively paves the path for the government to act proactively and repeal the problematic penal law provision of 377.

The Transgender Persons (*Protections of Rights*) Bill 2016, which is currently with a Parliamentary Standing Committee, may also appear to be a huge step in recognising and protecting the transgender community. But in truth, this bill only targets the Hijra community of the country – a third gender identity who are supposedly born male or intersex but identify themselves as female. The LGBTQ activists around the nation today are actively voicing their opinions and strongly recommend that it be immediately withdrawn. 
"If enacted and enforced in its current form, the Bill would contravene India's human rights obligations, including in respect of its limited definition of who a transgender person is; its failure to make adequate provisions on employment, education and anti-discrimination measures; and with respect to the penalties for relevant offences”.

In simpler words, The Bill completely eliminates the option of identification by transgender persons as either male or female and even reinforces injurious stereotypes about transpersons being part male and part female.[7]

Beyond legal consequences, Section 377 is regularly used to harass and intimidate consenting gay couples. The statute continues to cast a shadow over the lives of queer people. The repercussions span all the way from homophobia and catcalling in schools to preventing them from leading normal lives with their partner and maybe a child or two. The threat of 377 is used to intimidate activists seeking permission to organise Pride events, to force settlements in instances where gay men are forced to marry women, and for extortion and blackmail, with the legal provisions that are meant to protect from such blackmail rarely being enforced.

Despite being aware of these basic problems at hand, most intellectuals do not shy away from casually declaring, “Do what you want behind closed doors!” That’s not really acceptance, though. That’s conditional tolerance. No one’s saying one has to drop trout and march naked, but what good is it if the tolerance you’re afforded hinges on playing by somebody else’s rules? And what kind of progress is actually made if you get tolerated, but the people in your life still harbour such intense dislike for the members of our communities that are not like you?[8]

More than anything else, there is something far more fundamental at stake, something that we speak too little about when we talk about rights, discrimination and obsolete penal codes.

Something much more vulnerable - love and loneliness.

# References
[1]http://www.advocatekhoj.com/library/bareacts/indianpenalcode/377.php?Title=Indian%20Penal%20Code,%201860&STitle=Unnatural%20offences

[2] http://theconversation.com/the-british-empires-homophobic-legacy-could-finally-be-overturned-in-india-81284

[3] https://www.huffingtonpost.in/wendell-rodricks/were-a-nation-of-criminal_b_10498338.html

[4] http://g8fight.blogspot.com/2010/03/carnal-intercourse-against-order-of.html

[5] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Section_377_of_the_Indian_Penal_Code

[6] http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-battle-to-remove-section-section-377-the-story-so-far-2573941

[7] https://thewire.in/gender/failures-of-the-new-transgender-bill

[8] https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/pride-is-no-excuse-for-shame_us_59265b4ce4b090bac9d46b95
