<!-- TITLE: Shahrukh Khan Made Me Gay -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Today, we have an account from someone who is pursuing his PhD here at the Hyderabad Campus. Anonymous identifies as gay, but his orientation ranks very low on his list of priorities. As the title suggests, anon is very laid back and keeps his humour intact. -->

I’m currently pursuing my PhD. I love my field of work and I’m good at it too, that is my priority. Oh, and I’m also gay. To be honest, my gayness is number 19 on the list of my 20 priorities. Kinda like your attraction to the opposite gender is understandably not the centre of your entire life. Funnily enough, people outside the community have this ridiculous picture of a one-dimensional guy whose only job in life is to creepily fawn over another guy.

I do my bit to mitigate this dangerous and idiotic way of looking at my community. I’m associated with an NGO in Hyderabad called Mobbera Foundation. We work for many social causes, including breaking stereotypical views about Queer people, like holding cultural festivals where participants from within the community perform. By which we show that we are normal people with unique talents of our own. And that pinning down our identity to our orientation is downright stupid. The foundation also has a lot of “straight” allies who help the efforts. The audience’s response? Many are positive...but unsurprisingly, a lot are negative too.

Let me tell you about myself now. I’ve known I was gay ever since I saw DDLJ. It was as if Shahrukh Khan awoke my gayness. Just kidding. I’m not very flamboyant, but my hairstyle and fashion sense does ruffle some judgemental feathers. I couldn’t care less. I think the society needs to gather its wits and understand that no one should have to mask a part of their identity, at least not to their own family. Sadly, I’m not out to my parents or brothers. But their knowledge and acceptance would be enough for me to brush off outsiders' comments effortlessly. However, personally, I do feel that the process of "COMING OUT" is completely unnecessary. Why on earth should I come out when I am as normal as any other human?

But the society right now causes a bunch of tiresome problems. For many of us, dating apps are the only way to reach out to and meet other gay men. But the situation is so regressive that a local media house recently set up a fake profile to trap people who used these apps and released their private information to the public. Some anti-social elements fall to new lows, and misuse these apps to make friends with people from the LGBTQ community to later extort money in the pretext of "outing them". I was lucky enough not to fall for such traps till now. These situations can be avoided by staying alert.

But some situations cannot be avoided by being clever and astute. Family pressure. It’s especially intense and harrowing for my community. Being the third son in the family, my situation isn’t so bad. Whenever my parents bring up the topic of marriage, my brothers - who I suspect know about my sexuality although I haven’t told them - support me and ask my parents to lay off. Besides, there have been tough times when I neglected my work to take care of the family, so my parents are kind of returning the favour now by letting me be and pursue my career. But there are others who have no choice but to get married. Such conundrums leave men in a vulnerable and sometimes helpless state, forcing them resort to measures as drastic as suicide.

Representation is the key to make a difference in our lives. The biggest impact is definitely made by mothers who have accepted their children for who they are and speak up for the community. Movies also play an important role in moulding the way people think. Typically, gay men are characters used in comic roles, completely neglecting every side of their personality except the fact that they are attracted to men. There is so much more to us than that. We find love, we have dating problems and commitment issues, we have professional successes and failures, we are extremely capable of feeling emotions other than just fawning over a guy. Portraying us the way we are is the only way to break stereotypes and give the community the justice it deserves.

*Published 12the June, 2018.*