<!-- TITLE: Music World -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: A look at the Music Club on campus.   -->

*“Music gives a soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination and life to everything.”*  -Plato.

Amidst all the existing diversities, something that unites all of us in this campus is the love for music! This art form is driven forward passionately by the renowned Music Club. The club has been in play ever since the establishment of this campus. The diverse set of musicians they possess can create music from numerous instruments some of which one might not even have heard of. Giving a boost to their talents are the music club’s state of the art studio and extravagant speakers. Lokvamsi Anumukonda, the Secretary of the club, is a keyboardist. He got into this club in his 2-1, after being rejected twice in the first year, only because of his diligence and his immense passion. Therefore, it is obvious that getting into this club is really a hard row to hoe! Only after clearing several strenuous induction rounds and convincing the discerning judges, six people — three first yearites and three second yearites — made it into the club this year. Yet, the Secretary urges all the agog zealots to, at least, give a try.

After witnessing the success of the Amul Jam, the club plans to conduct two more such jams. Among other things, the club is working on giving a stellar performance at the Atmos inauguration and the members are looking forward to participate in Oasis, BITS Pilani, after gaining valuable experience at fests like IIT Delhi’s Rendezvous and IIT Bombay’s Mood Indigo. The club also plans on setting up open mics for non-club enthusiasts to showcase their talents. Lokvamsi sees immense potential in the new inductees and is optimistic about what the year will hold!