<!-- TITLE: Roomie -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: -->

College is the beginning of a new chapter in everyone’s life. It’s the first time when someone moves away from the comfort of home, its warmth, and their parents. A difficult transition indeed.. But gradually everyone begins to enjoy it and it becomes a home away from home. But, the more important aspect of college is shared accommodation. Sharing a room with someone you are unfamiliar with may seem preposterous. There will be difficulties in adjusting since the other person will be very different from you. Then, there is this question of whether you will be compatible with your roommate. Different thoughts regarding your roommate’s aspects of life will cross your mind whether he has the same taste in music, speaks the same language eats the same food, is clean and tidy, etc. Your roommate can be over sensitive or an introvert or an extrovert. But it is important to develop an understanding with each other to make the stay more pleasant and fun. Sharing a room has its own advantages, because it teaches a very important thing “adjusting”. With the ever-changing landscape in this era, one needs to be adept at adjusting to any situation, be it good or bad. During freshman year students experience loneliness, homesickness because they are far away from their family and friends. Sharing offers companionship and this can be a great stressbuster. Both students can learn from each other which will broaden the perspective of both the students. It will also develop your communication skills which is an essential life skill and is needed everywhere. In the end, it depends on both the individuals dealing with issues honestly and sensitively to make college life as fun as possible.

*Article sent by Adityaa Srivastava*