<!-- TITLE: Seven Billion Orange PIPS -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: The why and how of fanaticism -->

Scrolling through my Facebook feed a few days ago, I came across a meme, a pure white picture captioned, ‘Here’s a meme that won’t offend anyone’. Funnily enough, the very first comment on this read “All white? Don’t be racist”. Now of course, there’s no harm in a joke. But it made me ask myself – Why are we seeing more and more of these people who form strong opinions without giving it much thought and act upon them to disturb society? A rather long jump to make based on a meme you say? Well, I can hardly be blamed for that considering how violence seems to be on the rise. The reasons are more confusing than what they were barely half a century ago. Back then was when we’d started to focus on the important things again. Ironically, we have quickly regressed over time. Civil protests which used to happen due to pressing problems like water scarcity are now being staged by a new generation of neo-Nazis, Alt-rightists and, something closer home, “true Indian nationalists”. While all these factions had always been brewing in the background, they never really found strength until now. So, why now? At this point one might claim that these ideologies and people who followed them even existed over a century ago and that they were born back then for a reason. But the key difference is that for people now, the choice of following or not following the aforementioned is no longer an illusion. These neo-Nazis now act in the absence of a ‘neo-Hitler’. Their motivation stems out of insecurity and unjustified hostility towards everything and everyone unlike them. In short – xenophobia bubbling to the surface, something which should not be a thing in the age of information. The root of this issue is a tangled mess with one too many open ends. One might argue that the timeline of their emergence seems to coincide with social media and the internet increasingly becoming the primary source and sink of opinions, news and all the fluff they come with. Incorrect or misinterpreted information is spread all over the internet. One can also not fully deny that social networking has fuelled such groups by giving them a place to find like-minded people and therefore, find strength in numbers. It is basic human psychology – the larger the mob is, the more righteous their cause begins to feel to those involved. These fanatics are also the product of an issue that we have been fighting for far too long. Yet again, deeprooted racism rears its ugly head. This would then mean that the education system has been an abysmal failure. A blatant sign pointing towards this is the show of fanaticism within universities itself. Take for example, the previously mentioned Charlottesville protest where white nationalists marched through the University of Virginia or even the polluting display of destructive nationalism at JNU and Delhi University. These are only a few of the many little reasons which add up to the actions of a person, eventually becoming a collective. The quick fix to this, frankly put, doesn’t exist. Do we need a more effective education system? Yes, but there is no foolproof method to create one. Even if we do, we will have to ensure positive influence all through every single person’s life and it will still take two whole generations to solve. Hitting hard with law enforcement? To quote Albert Einstein, “If people are good only because they fear punishment, and hope for reward, then we are a sorry lot indeed.” It is my belief that law enforcement can only go so far, for it was not meant to chain down the masses but to set individuals on a righteous path. The change therefore will take time, and to that end, we need to do our bit and stay on the right path and propagate what we know to be peaceful methods. Time and again humanity has faced radical elements of many kinds and has overcome them. This time need not be any different