<!-- TITLE: An Interview With Yash Chokhani, Technical Secretary of BPHC-->
<!-- SUBTITLE: The Technical Secretary is one of the foremost positions of responsibility for ATMOS. The fest is considered officially begun when the TC declares it open during the formal inauguration ceremony. -->

# Interview
**Q1) I’d like to start this interview by asking you how the preparations for ATMOS are going?**
YC:  Preparations are going well. We are onto the last phase of publicity, which is PR Calling and right now most of the workshops are released and the talks are beginning to be announced, the first pro-show was released just yesterday. This time we are lagging behind a bit because of the drama involving a fresher and as a result of this, everything got delayed by two weeks. That’s why we’re a bit late but we’re doing our best to stay on schedule and we believe ATMOS will be great.

**Q2) The theme this year is “Into the Sixth Dimension”. Would you care to elaborate on what exactly the Sixth Dimension is?**
YC: When we were deciding the theme, we were looking into many aspects and this idea came to mind, I’m not exactly sure what inspired it. We’d gotten to talking about time travel and voila, “Into the Sixth Dimension” popped out. I should explain that I love astrophysics and I thought about the 4 dimensions we have: the x, y, z co-ordinates and, time and space and also the 5th dimension proposed by the movie Interstellar; Gravity. If we have control over all 5 dimensions, it is believed that we can travel through time and space and swap between dimensions and so we made ATMOS our Sixth Dimension.

**Q3)How is this year’s ATMOS different from last year’s and how do you plan on improving?**
YC: Last year’s ATMOS was a benchmark. So, there was very little scope for improvement. Perhaps all we could improve on were reducing the fights, ego clashes and some mistakes. Last year's FoB had a profit of 15 lakh rupees which is incredible. We’ve tried to improve by shaking things up, changed many events and upgraded the quality of all the events and they are way better than last year. We’ve also increased the prize money by 2.5 lakh from last year which is a major incentive for people. We’ve tried to make the workshops more related to the course which should make people more interested in the workshops. The talks are more relevant, we’ve got Subramaniam Swamy coming and we have a defence panel coming too and we have an, as of yet, announced Chief Guest.

**Q4) What growth do you see after your tenure in ATMOS and the technical culture around campus?**
YC: Next year? They could try to do more work in their holidays. Our plan was to complete everything in the holidays, but then we had Practice School and some of us were in some very remote places where we didn’t have the connectivity required to plan the fest and so some of the work was not completed in the holidays. I think they could probably plan out their Practice School beforehand to finish the fest work during their vacation. The quality of the fest is completely dependent on how they spend their internship, if your vacation is screwed, so is your fest.

**Q5)How important is ATMOS to the technical culture in our campus?**
YC: The technical activities that happen on campus other than ATMOS are restricted to the campus only which means that people aren’t able to compete with people from outside our campus. During ATMOS, students from other colleges come in and we are able to better evaluate our standing among them. Some of these students are from the top IITs too which means we have great competition.

**Q5) How do you plan on improving and developing the technical culture around campus?**
YC: Last year, Sharath (Sharath Golluri, Technical Secretary, 2017-2018) came up with the idea of the I-Cell. Before the I-Cell came, Sandboxx was the only place we could work and getting the necessary permission and funding generally took around 6 months: 2 months to get the project approved by faculty and 4 months to get the necessary funding and then you could get started on your project. What I-Cell does is make the process simpler. We’ve got a funding of around 10 lakhs and we’ve bought some equipment and made a Tinkerer’s Lab for testing. We’ve also made Sandboxx free to access once you pay a membership fee of around 750 rupees. The plan is to attract more people to it and increase enthusiasm and interest towards it. People who are members of I-Cell are free to use the equipment in Sandbox and Tinkerer’s Lab and we also propose a budget every 2-3 months so that additional material can be bought. The only restriction is that you can’t take the equipment outside of Tinkerer’s Lab for more than 3 days. The logic behind this is that people can test out products using the Lab and buy it themselves if they feel it is well and good. We’ve also planned a lot of workshops and events that’ll happen in collaboration with ARC and CRUx. We’re also planning an event similar to Megathon, organised by IIT Hyderabad but we’re still very unsure of that because we haven’t got the necessary funding as of yet but we are trying our level best to come up with the money required.

**Q6)We’ve got a new Technical Association this year, the Aero Club. What is the basic mandate set out to this club and how important do you think it’ll be to the future of the technical culture in campus?**
YC: The clubs we have right now are for coding and robotics only. MEA deals with engine parts and related machinery. Associations which are focused on subjects don’t build practical things as compared to SAE and BAHA who are working on cars. The idea behind the Aero Club is to cater to people who are interested in working on RC and Hydraulics. We believe this Club will help them guide their interest. Hydraulics is a field that’ll never die. If someone is interested in making a career out of it, then the Aero Club is the place for them to be.

**Q7)The next question is with respect to addressing a problem most students face. The technical associations after having a few workshops in the beginning of the year, go dormant. How do you plan on rectifying that?**
 YC: The technical associations that take workshops are basically clubs like ARC and CRUx. The Competitive Coding Workshop CRUx hosts is still going on. They’ve been paused because of the midsems and ATMOS. After ATMOS, they’ll resume. They do this every year. People lose interest because they generally don’t follow up on what’s being taught at these workshops and they turn up in the next class completely inadept at the stuff taught in the previous workshop which leads to them skipping the next classes. Coding is something that’ll help people get placements which is something they teach at this workshop. If we had more people interested, we could have Workshops teaching coding from the start. We can’t just teach 4-5 people. In the beginning, the CRUx Workshop had around a 180 people attending and afterwards, only 15-20 people showed up in the next workshops. For the ARC Workshop, we have the line follower workshop and the I-Navigate Workshop, in collaboration with IEEE. The problem with these workshops is that the components cost money and as a result, most of the people are dissuaded right from the get-go. After these workshops, we have the inductions for ARC in which we have around 14-15 projects for people to select from and present to the ARC which requires a lot of interest from a student. I’m planning on taking Common Room meets in which we’ll explain what the SUC is doing and also, talk about the technical culture. We’re also planning to take something related to SMP (Student Mentorship Program). Once the work for ATMOS is over, we’ll start working on bringing this to fruition. We can keep Workshops which for a lot of things but we generally look at event-related workshops because then, people have a chance to earn back the money they invested in learning about a technology like the Line Follower and Past Forward events which have a prize money of 40k and 25k respectively. But still people leave because technical things require you to fail a lot before you can expect anything to come out of it. Persistence is key here which is something we lack in.
 
**Q8) The GBM didn’t meet its quorum twice this year. Do you think that’s worrying for you because of the participation decreasing?**
YC: Last year, the majority of the people participating in the GBM were third and second years. People would come to the GBM to express their opinion on a particular agenda. They should instead of sitting in their rooms and criticizing the agenda, come to the meets and express their opinions. The GBM was made precisely to oppose any agenda that was exploitative. People could vote for the things they believed and actually see their vote make a difference in campus. We should responsible for our fests and our college. It is not like the people are studying only, the cut-offs have dropped for the dual degrees too. They’re not coming because they’re disinterested in campus activities. People should feel like its their voice that can make a difference in the face of the campus. The college provides them with a platform to express themselves.

**Q9) Your first ATMOS, your role was quite different to what it is now. How different was it and what advice would you give to freshers experiencing their first fest?**
YC: In my first year, we had T1 and T2. So, I was not in a lot of clubs, I was in DOSH, Ad Astra, Tech Expo OC and a couple more. We had our T1 in September, the second month of September, after which it was very chill, we barely had any tests except for the odd surprise test, but yeah, it was lite. ATMOS was on the 14th,15th,16th or 15th,16th,17th of October. So, we were all working for the fest. All I was working for was Tech Expo, which holds a very special place in my heart because when I joined Tech Expo, it was in its first year so, I’ve seen it grow into what it is now. There were only fifteen teams in our first ever event and in my second year, we had nearly 30 teams participating in our events which was very satisfying. I owe a lot to Tech Expo because I don’t think I’d be where I am right now if it weren’t for Tech Expo. Other than this, I worked for DOSH. I got to enjoy the Pro-shows and I didn’t have a lot of work. I participated in Code Jam and Algomaniac and reached the final rounds of both. Right now, I barely get the time to enjoy the fest. Even if I want to, I can’t because you have to do all this work for people who are also experiencing the fest for the first or second time and you’ve got to make it more enjoyable for them. I want the freshers to have an experience like I did at my first ATMOS so that they can get motivated. 

**Q10) Over the years, you’ve been a part of Technical Associations. Could you talk about the work you’ve done for them?**
YC: So, honestly, I’ve not been part of many technical associations. I’m a part of Ad Astra and I gave inductions for CRUx for which I was not inducted. I’ve not formally worked for Technical Associations but I’ve worked on my own, getting internships and learning skills like making websites and apps and doing competitive coding and I tried my hand at robotics. I made a line follower and my team participated in the competition, I was, sadly, busy during the competition. I don’t know why I didn’t give Inductions for many technical associations. I’m interested in technical things and I want to do them on my own so I went for the other side of things, like DOSM, Embryo, Hindi Tarang and TedX. I was already aware of my technical interest so, I tried to expand my horizons by joining clubs in which I had very little experience. You go to clubs and departments because you want to find your passion and I already knew I had interest in the technical side of things and so I tried to expand my domain.

**Q11)Do you have any advice for the freshers?**
YC: Okay so, right now what I’ve seen is that the freshers take their academics very seriously. I’m not saying that CG is not important, CG is very important. For me, the top priority is CG. But what I’m trying to saying is that learn to enjoy your college life. Your first year is lite, when you go into your second and third year, you are crushed by assignments and disinterest in certain subjects and you won’t feel like studying them. Don’t give all your time to your studies. Work for Clubs and Departments, try coding, try cultural things and improve your skills. So First years, don’t focus so much on studies, try and explore things around campus and Hyderabad. Explore and search for the things you plan on doing for your 4 years here and try to get a clear understanding of what you want to do for the rest of your life. Don’t stay burdened because of your studies, try and make new friends and explore with them.

# Notes & Trivia
1) The Technical Secretary becomes the Technical Convener during the three days of ATMOS. They aren't different positions held by different people.
2) This interview was taken on 18th October, 2018. 


